src/content/docs/companion-app.md, before:

---
title: "Desktop Companion App"
---

# Music Assistant Desktop App

[![latest version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/music-assistant/desktop-app?display_name=tag&include_prereleases&label=Latest%20version)](https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest)
[![discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/753947050995089438?label=Discord&logo=discord&color=5865F2)](https://discord.gg/kaVm8hGpne)
[![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/music-assistant?label=sponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/music-assistant)
[![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Licence&message=Apache-2.0&color=000)](https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/blob/main/LICENSE)
![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Bundled%20Size&message=25.1MB&color=0974B4)
[![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Stage&message=Alpha&color=2BB4AB)](https://github.com/music-assistant/tauri-companion-app/blob/main/LICENSE)

The desktop app for Music Assistant!

**Download for** macOS (<a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/download/v0.1.0/Music.Assistant_0.1.0_aarch64.dmg" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Apple Silicon</a> | <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/download/v0.1.0/Music.Assistant_0.1.0_x64.dmg" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Intel</a>) · <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/download/v0.1.0/Music.Assistant_0.1.0_x64_en-US.msi" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Windows</a> · Linux (<a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/download/v0.1.0/Music.Assistant_0.1.0_amd64.deb" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Debian</a> | <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/download/v0.1.0/Music.Assistant_0.1.0_amd64.AppImage" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Other</a>)

> [!TIP]
> **This is still in very early alpha. Bugs *will* be present.**
>
> Please help finding them. You can report any bugs on the <a href="https://discord.gg/kaVm8hGpne" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Discord server</a> or in the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/tauri-companion-app/issues" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">repo issues</a>

> [!NOTE]
> There aren't apps available yet for Android or iOS

## Setup

When starting the app for the first time you are asked for some information about the Music Assistant Server.

![image](/assets/screenshots/companion-app-config.png)

## Features

- Native Audio Playback - High-quality audio output via Sendspin protocol with device selection
- System Tray Integration - Control playback and see what's playing from the system tray
- OS Media Controls - Integrates with macOS Control Center, Windows Media Controls, and Linux MPRIS
- Discord Rich Presence - Show what you're listening to on Discord
- Server Discovery - Automatic discovery of Music Assistant servers via mDNS

### <a href="https://discord.com/developers/docs/rich-presence/how-to#so-what-is-it" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Discord Rich Presence</a>

Like the Spotify app, the Music Assistant app can do Discord Rich Presence.

Example of Discord Rich Presence:

!<a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/tauri-companion-app/assets/74015378/8de18bac-b963-4aba-bb61-5730b41759a9" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Example of Discord Rich Presence</a>

## Installation

### Windows

You can download the .msi installer from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.

### macOS

You can download the .dmg from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.

### Debian (and Debian based distributions)

You can download the .deb from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.

### All the other Linux distros

You can download the AppImage from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.

Commit message:

Fix download instructions for companion app (#513)
Updated the download section to include a link for the latest release and clarified available platforms.

src/content/docs/companion-app.md, after:

---
title: "Desktop Companion App"
---

# Music Assistant Desktop App

[![latest version](https://img.shields.io/github/release/music-assistant/desktop-app?display_name=tag&include_prereleases&label=Latest%20version)](https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest)
[![discord](https://img.shields.io/discord/753947050995089438?label=Discord&logo=discord&color=5865F2)](https://discord.gg/kaVm8hGpne)
[![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/github/sponsors/music-assistant?label=sponsors)](https://github.com/sponsors/music-assistant)
[![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Licence&message=Apache-2.0&color=000)](https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/blob/main/LICENSE)
![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Bundled%20Size&message=25.1MB&color=0974B4)
[![sponsor](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Stage&message=Alpha&color=2BB4AB)](https://github.com/music-assistant/tauri-companion-app/blob/main/LICENSE)

The desktop app for Music Assistant!

Available for macOS, Windows, and Linux (Debian, AppImage, or RPM; for both x64 and ARM).

[**Download the latest release here**](https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest)

> [!TIP]
> **This is still in very early alpha. Bugs *will* be present.**
>
> Please help finding them. You can report any bugs on the <a href="https://discord.gg/kaVm8hGpne" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Discord server</a> or in the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/tauri-companion-app/issues" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">repo issues</a>

> [!NOTE]
> There aren't apps available yet for Android or iOS

## Setup

When starting the app for the first time you are asked for some information about the Music Assistant Server.

![image](/assets/screenshots/companion-app-config.png)

## Features

- Native Audio Playback - High-quality audio output via Sendspin protocol with device selection
- System Tray Integration - Control playback and see what's playing from the system tray
- OS Media Controls - Integrates with macOS Control Center, Windows Media Controls, and Linux MPRIS
- Discord Rich Presence - Show what you're listening to on Discord
- Server Discovery - Automatic discovery of Music Assistant servers via mDNS

### <a href="https://discord.com/developers/docs/rich-presence/how-to#so-what-is-it" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Discord Rich Presence</a>

Like the Spotify app, the Music Assistant app can do Discord Rich Presence.

Example of Discord Rich Presence:

!<a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/tauri-companion-app/assets/74015378/8de18bac-b963-4aba-bb61-5730b41759a9" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Example of Discord Rich Presence</a>

## Installation

### Windows

You can download the .msi installer from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.

### macOS

You can download the .dmg from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.

### Debian (and Debian based distributions)

You can download the .deb from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.

### All the other Linux distros

You can download the AppImage from the <a href="https://github.com/music-assistant/desktop-app/releases/latest/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">releases</a>.
